In the last lesson, we introduced
feed-forward neural networks,
a powerful machine
learning model.
We saw the tasks we
would like this model to
perform such as object detection,
semantic segmentation
and depth estimation.
In this lesson, we
will first review
the general process of
designing machine-learning
algorithms.
We will then introduce
the missing components
still required to define
a suitable neural network for
a specific perception tasks
including the choice
of a loss function.
Let's begin with
a general machine
learning algorithm
design process.
Generally, supervised machine
learning models including
neural networks have two modes of
operation, inference
and training.
Recall are basic neural
network formulation.
Given a set of parameters data,
the input x is passed through
the model f of x and
data to get an output y.
This mode of operation
is called inference,
and is usually the one we usually
deploy the machine learning
algorithms in the real world.
The network and its parameters
are fixed and we use it to
extract perception information
from new input data.
However, we still
need to define how to
obtain the parameter set data.
Here we need a second mode
of operation involving
optimization over
the network parameters.
This mode is called training
and has the sole purpose of
generating a
satisfactory parameter
set for the task at hand.
Let's see how training
is usually performed.
We start with the same
workflow as inference.
However, during training
we have training data.
As such we know what
f star of x is,
the expected output of the model.
For self-driving,
this training data
often takes the form of
human annotated images which
take a long time to produce.
We compare our inference
to a predicted output y,
to the true output f star of x,
through a loss or
a cost function.
The loss function
takes as an input
the predicted output
y from the network,
and the true output f star of x,
and provides a measure of
the difference between the two.
We usually try to
minimize this measure by
modifying the
parameters data so that
the output y from
the network is as similar as
possible to the f star of x.
We do this modification to data
via an optimization procedure.
This optimization
procedure takes in
the output of the
loss function and
provides a new set of
parameters data that
provide a lower value
for that loss function.
We will learn about
this optimization process
in detail during the next lesson.
But for now, let's extend
the design process
to neural networks.
We discussed in the last lesson a
feed-forward neural network
which takes an input x,
passes it through a sequence
of hidden layers,
then passes the output of
the hidden layers
through an output layer.
This is the end of the inference
stage of the neural network.
For training, we pass
the predicted output
through the loss function,
then use an
optimization procedure
to produce a new set of
parameters data that provide
a lower value for
the loss function.
The major difference between
the design of traditional machine
learning algorithms in the design
of artificial neural networks,
is that the neural network
only interacts
with the loss function
via the output layer.
Therefore, it is quite
reasonable that the
output layer and
the loss function are designed
together depending
on the task at hand.
Let's dig deeper into
the major perception tasks
we usually encounter
in autonomous driving.
The first important task
that we use for
autonomous driving perception
is classification.
Classification can be
described as taking
an input x and mapping it to one
of k classes or categories.
Examples include,
image classification,
where we just want to map
an image to
a particular category,
to say whether or
not it contains cats
or dogs for example and
semantic segmentation
where we want to
map every pixel in
the image to a category.
The second task that
we usually use for
autonomous driving perception
is a regression.
In regression, we want to map
inputs to a set of real numbers.
Examples of regression
include, depth estimation,
where we want to estimate
a real depth value for
every pixel in an image.
We can also mix the two
tasks together.
For example, object
detection is usually
comprised of a regression task
where we estimate
the bounding box that
contains an object and
a classification task
where we identify
which type of object is
in the bounding box.
We will now describe the output
layer loss function pairs
associated with each of
these basic perception tasks.
Let's start with
the classification task first.
Usually, for a k class
classification tasks,
we use the softmax output layer.
Softmax output layers are
capable of representing
a probability distribution
over k classes.
The softmax output
layer takes as input h,
the output of
the last hidden layer
of the neural network.
It then passes it through
an affine transformation
resulting
in a transformed output vector z.
Next, the vector z
is transformed into
a discrete probability
distribution
using the softmax
element-wise function.
For each element z_i,
this function computes
the ratio of the exponential of
element z_i over the sum
of the exponentials of
all of the elements of z.
The result is a value
between zero and one
and the sum of all of
these elements is one,
making it a proper
probability distribution.
Let's take a look at
a numerical example
to better explain
the softmax output layer.
In this example, we'd like to
classify images containing a cat,
a dog or a fox.
First we define the first element
of our output vector
to correspond
to the probability that
the image is a cat
according to our network.
The ordering of
classes is arbitrary
and has no impact on
network performance.
Taking the output of
the affine transformation,
we compute the probability by
dividing the exponential of
each elements of the output by
the sum of the exponentials
of all of the elements.
Given values of 13
minus seven and 11
as the outputs of
the linear transformation layer,
we achieve a probability of
88 percent that
this image is a cat,
11.9 percent that this image is
a fox and a very low probability
that this image is a dog.
Now, let's see how to design
a loss function that
uses the output of
the softmax output layer
to show us how accurate
our estimate is.
The standard loss
function to be used with
the softmax output layer
is the Cross-Entropy Loss,
which is formed by taking
the negative log of
the softmax function.
The Cross-Entropy Loss
has two terms to control
how close the output of
the network is to
the true probability.
Z_i is the output of the
hidden layer corresponding to
the true class before
being passed through
the softmax function.
This is usually called
the class logit which
comes from the field of
logistic regression.
When minimizing
this loss function,
the negative of
the class logit z_i encourages
the network to output
a large value for the probability
of the correct class.
The second term on
the other hand,
encourages the output of
the affine transformation
to be small.
The two terms together encourages
the network to minimize
the difference
between the predicted
class probabilities
and the true class probability.
To understand this loss better.
Let's take a look at
a numerical example on how
the Cross-Entropy
Loss is computed from
the output of a classification
neural network.
Revisiting our previous example,
we first need to choose
what our z sub i is.
Z sub i is the linear
transformation output
corresponding to
the true class of inputs.
In this case, z_i is
the element of the output of
the linear transformation
corresponding to the cat class.
Once we determine z sub i,
we use the Cross-Entropy to
compute the final loss value.
In this case, the network
correctly predicts
that the input is
a cat and sees a loss
function value of 0.12.
Let us now do
the computation again but
with an erroneous network output.
The input to the network
is still a cat image.
The network still
assigns the value of 13
to the cat entry of the output
of the linear transformation.
But this time the fox entry
will get a value of 14.
Computing the Cross-Entropy Loss,
we find that it evaluates to
1.31 more than ten times
the value of the previous slide.
Note how the loss function
heavily penalizes
erroneous predictions even when
the difference in
output is only one.
This difference accelerates
the learning process and
rapidly steers network outputs
to the true values
during training.
So far we've presented
an output layer and
loss functions specific to
the classification task.
Let's now go through
the most common output layer
for the regression task.
The linear output layer
is mostly used for
regression tasks to
model statistics
of common probability
distributions.
The linear output layer
is simply comprised of
a single affine transformation
without any non-linearity.
The statistics to be modeled
with the linear output layer
depends on the loss function
we choose to go with it.
For example, to model
the mean of a probability
distribution,
we use the mean squared
error as our loss function.
The linear and softmax
output units described
above are the most
common output layers
used in neural networks today
and can be coupled with
a variety of tasks
specific loss
functions to perform
a variety of useful perception
tasks for autonomous driving.
Many other output layers
and loss functions exist and this
remains an active area of
research in deep learning.
In this lesson, you
learned that to build
a machine learning model you need
to define a network model,
a loss function and
an optimization procedure to
learn the network parameters.
You also learn what loss
function to choose based on
the task that needs to be
done by the neural network model.
In the next video, we
will be discussing
the final components of
our neural network
design process;
optimization, which
involves how to get
the best parameter set data for
a specific task.
See you next time.